Hello everyone and welcome to the linked list reversal solution lecture.
Again your problem statement was to write a function to reverse a linked list in place.
The function should take the head of the list as input and then return the new head of the list you
were given this example of a linked list node class.
And now let's go over the solution.
Since you want to do this in place you want to make the function operate in constant space.
Meaning we don't create a new list and add elements to it or set up some other nodes.
We have to do it in place so we will simply use the current nodes.
Time wise we can actually perform this reversal linearly in linear time.
Big O N we can reverse the list by changing the next pointer of each node each node.
Next pointer should point to the previous node in one pass from head to tail for input list.
We will point each node next pointer to the previous element.
Make sure to copy the current thought next node attribute into the next node before setting the current
next note the previous So hopefully that sounds a little familiar from the lectures as far as how to
insert new notes and the order to do it.
In this case we're not inserting anything new or different versing the linked list in place.
Let's go ahead and see this idea and strategy implemented out in code.
I'm a go ahead and hop over to Juber notebook.
All right.
And let's go ahead and get started.
First thing I'm going to do is start by writing up my function single-A to say D F just call it reverse
and it takes in that head node.
Well I'm going to do set up three variables current previous and next and these just dance for the nodes
I meant.
So currents will start off as the head node previous will just be none for now looks and say next node
is also equal to none right now.
Now we're going to say while
currents and this while loop will essentially let us know until we have gone through the end of the
list then we're going to do is make sure to copy the current nodes next node to a variable next node
before overwriting as the previous node for reversal.
And what I mean by that is doing this offset next node variable equal to the current next underscore
actually next node in this case.
Let me go ahead and paste in will say pass here for now.
Just so I can paste in the cell code here.
Copy and paste it just so you'll remember what the actual attributes are.
We have value and next note.
All right.
So just continuing on.
So he set next node equal to current that next node.
The reason I stopped for a bit is because in some of the node implementations we did we had an underscore
there.
That's pretty much up to you on how you implement it.
But in this case for the solution book we didn't have an underscore there so I'll just say next node
variable equals the current nodes next node.
So I want to make sure to copy the current notes next to a variable next node before overwriting as
the previous note for reversal.
Then I'm going to reverse the pointer to the next note in say current
dot next node is equal to previous.
Then I'm going to go one forward in the list which just means previous is now equal to current and current
is equal to that next node.
After all of that I just return
previous.
Let's go ahead and run this and test our solution.
Zoom out a bit and as I noted in the previous lecture we can just copy and paste what the cell says
there.
So we create a list of four nodes set up that order A B C D with values 1 2 3 4.
We go ahead and print those values I'm just copying and pasting from that solution book and then we
get two three four.
Let's go ahead and reverse this in place.
OK we reversed it.
It returned and now it's prints DCB and we get 3 to 1.
Ok so now we can see that each the values points to the actual previous value.
Given that we're calling the next note of d to actually 3 now see next notice pointed to is not pointing
to 1 etc. instead of the other way around.
Where being x.
Notice pointing to three this case we don't do d.
In this first one or in the first one because they're both pointed to none.
All right that's it for this problem.
Let's just walk through the main code one more time.
This reverse function.
Oh we have to do is set Currence previous and next note and end this solution.
The key thing to note is that you'd have to go through the entire list until the end of the list and
you want to make sure to copy the current nodes next node before overwriting as the previous note for
reversal.
That's basically the trick to this.
So making sure to copy that Curran's next node before overwriting the current next note is the previous
So you mixed up this ordering.
You won't have anything else to reference and the algorithm won't make sense anymore.
After that you just set previous equal to current and then current equal to that next node.
OK go ahead and check it out on your own.
Make sure you understand that.
But that's really all there is to it.
As far as reversing a linked list in place this is a pretty common interview questions so make sure
you fully understand that.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.